so let's jump into the first question
when do I next raise money every CEO
worries about this question all the time
okay and my only kind of glib answer is
when now how much as much as you can
right from whom the best VCS who will
fund you and on what terms if I could
add one the best you can
find and the reason that's only kind of
glib is let's look Point by point when
well in 2002 I know it was a long time
ago but in 2002 there were only two
types of startups in
existence right those that had raised a
large amount of money at a ridiculous
valuation prior to April
2001 or dead right there was no other
type of startup in 2002 when the
internet Bubble Burst so these decisions
could have a big impact always remember
that the famous quote from Don Valentine
the founder of Sequoia all companies go
out of business for the same reason they
run out of money right and as CEO one of
your first and foremost responsibilities
is to keep the organism alive and the
way you do that is to keep fuel or
oxygen pick your metaphor in the tank so
so so that's why you want to raise now
how much there's a tendency you you
you'll find this kind of teeter totter
where people want to push back financing
because if we can get a couple of more
good quarters we can delay we can reduce
delution um so there's this tendency to
always want to do it later because as an
optimistic entrepreneur we believe in
the bright future and raising money
later was always better than sooner but
that's only true if everything really
turns out rosily um and this can
backfire on you so so that's why that
both the how much and the when should be
pulled forward from whom you know not
withstanding the real value that top
tier VCS offer whether they have
programs to support the startups or the
the value and wisdom of a of a wise
board member not withstanding that real
value there's also Big Brand value in
the VCS you pick so you know all other
things being equal in a financing round
you could have somebody who's very nice
and very smart from a no-name firm or or
somebody who is equivalent from a
bigname firm your future fundraising
will be much easier if you pick the
second person right your day-to-day
operations might be equivalent your next
round will be
easier so so that's kind of the micro
view on on fundraising if you step back
and take a more kind of macro view on it
you should try to raise money about
every two years why is this because
unless you're blessed and some people
are blessed they can make five phone
calls and raise a $50 million round but
if you're not one of them if if you're
not blessed and raising around is going
to be real work say 3 to 6 months
there's a distraction Factor on the CEO
with all that time gone so that's one
the one scale is saying big distraction
we can't do this every year I can't
spend a third to half my time raising
money on the other hand is the delution
argument which is the later I raise
money I could do it at a higher
valuation get less delution because the
company will be bigger so and look if if
you raise three years worth of money
there's a very strong argument that the
portion of that Capital needed in year
three could have been raised at a higher
valuation so when you knit all that out
you kind of come down to twoyear Cycles
you know one interesting thing about
this phenomenon is you can often take
the size of somebody's round and divide
it by 8 to 10 and get a pretty good
approximation of their burn rate because
most people think in these
terms so how much money should we raise
everybody should have a driver-based
model for their company that has all the
key drivers right number of reps types
of reps productivity by types of reps
attrition ramping uh net and gross
dollar retention rate gross margin right
there's about 10 or 15 drivers you need
to fully Model A SAS company and you
should build that model and use it to
figure out how much cash you need the
last two years and not in your best
scenario but in an okay
scenario now the most important thing in
this crazy envir ironment is just
because you raise it doesn't mean you
have to spend it right you might go out
thinking you're going to raise 25
million and in this world find out that
you can raise 50 should you take the 50
in my opinion yes why see prior slide
right but but the problem is now you've
got $50 million and you've got a board
member presumably who wants to see you
deploy that here she underwrote a model
where that 50 million gets spent um and
this is going to create some tension and
my advice to resolve that tension is
understood that yes they underwrote a
model but you're now 3 months later 6
months later executing in reality and if
you've just hired a cohort of 10 sales
wraps 6 months ago and everybody's
failing don't go hire 10 more right even
though the model says you were supposed
to right let reality Drive the trigger
on the spend not the model that got
underwritten 6 months ago and the last
point and this is a big one um is can
you afford not to fight in the VC arms
race you know 20 years ago VC was more
like the racetrack I I think they sat
around and everybody bet on their horse
and they watched the race and they saw
who won uh and now you know somebody
figured out along the way that if they
could kind of give their horse steroids
right in the form of extra Capital that
they could actually increase the odds of
their horse winning uh and the first guy
did that the second guy did that and
then the third guy did it and now you
have these 100 million dollar private
rounds right where where in effect
sandill road is trying to King make
they're trying to pick winners by
deciding this is the company that will
get the most funding and my advice for
you and and the perverse thing about
this is the better your category the
more likely that is to happen right if
you're selling some very focused
vertical SAS app you're unlikely to find
a spending arms race right but if you're
in some horizontal platform category
people may throw hundreds of millions
Maybe billions of VC at the category and
you don't get to not
play so if you find yourself in this
situation there probably a sign that
you're in a really good category but you
either need to play to win and go out
raise the other guy or you need to find
pivot into some sub segment where you're
not directly competing with them it's a
very hard decision um but you know how
much can you outsmart the other guy
because this is Silicon Valley the other
guys are smart too right you might be
smart they're smart can can you outsmart
them if you have 20% less Capital maybe
if you got 50% maybe if you have a third
I don't know right maybe even 50% I
don't know how much are you relying on
outsmarting somebody who I'm assuming is
already very smart so so you have to
watch this Factor when you think about
funding so second question do I have the
right team
um boards focus on this question a lot
VCS view themselves as kind of experts
in people everybody gets to have an
opinion about people whether you're a
financial VC or an operating VC so this
is a question that attracts a lot of
attention and I always like to look at
it through two perspectives the first is
for you for the CEO do you have the
right team for you and then second do
you have the right team for the board
and let's talk about them one at a time
so I have a couple of kind of joking
tongue-and-cheek laws up here that come
from friends of mine but but the first
law is pretty simple my friend Greg ORD
always said there's two types of people
those who bring energy and those who
take
energy and we all know who the energy
takers are right they walk in the room
and they somehow suck all of the oxygen
out uh and they kind of bring everybody
down my advice get that guy or gal out
of the room I don't care how you do it I
don't care if you demote them I don't
care if you keep them as a direct report
and disinvite them to the meeting I
don't care if you hire them a coach but
your team needs to be full and you have
a very hard job and you should be
surrounded by people who bring
energy the second principle is do you
want to meet with them you know one day
I was at Mark logic probably 10 plus
years ago and we'll make up the position
I had a meeting at 11 o' with the VP of
product management and I went H God I
don't want to do that meeting and I
stopped and I went that's crazy wait a
minute you're the CEO of a company
you're supposed to meet with the head of
product strategy which is one of the
most important things in the company and
you don't want to meet that person what
the heck does that mean right and what
it means is bad right because there's
probably a reason why you don't want to
meet with them for me the top reasons
are they can't keep up with the
conversation or their answers are always
gobbley G when I ask questions
or uh what's another good one oh they
don't follow through they say yeah we're
going to do things one two three four
and five and you meet him an Mon flater
and nothing happened right that's how
you lose interest in meeting with a
direct report and I view the non desire
to meet with one is a huge warning sign
that you should
expect another thing is how well do they
work with each other uh another friend
of mine has this expression go from
Mackie aeli that Waring princes means
one thing a weak King right and if
you're CEO of the company you cannot
allow Waring princes in your company
everybody sees it the whole company
knows if two East staffers are at war
I've had entrylevel accountants crying
in my office because they're tov P's
have been fighting right the whole
company sees it and it's your job to
make sure it doesn't happen so when you
have Waring princes my advice is to be
very quick to say this is unacceptable I
will not tolerate this you can do 36
degree feedback surveys you could bring
in a coach you could do whatever kind of
intervention you want but my advice is
make sure that no one wins that there is
no winner that you chose to fight you
might still be with the company but you
are not going to win
uh and make sure that you're committed
enough to fire them or demote them out
of the position to make it stop and one
time I had a conversation when this was
happening I said you know I'm seriously
considering firing you because you're at
war with one of your peers and the
person said are you going to fire me for
fighting I said no I'm going to fire you
for insubordination because I asked you
not to fight I told you not to fight and
you fought anyway right I'm deeply
committed to ending this conflict so
another thing to think about do you have
the right team if they're fighting with
each other something's wrong and then
finally delivery track record some
people are really good at explaining why
stuff didn't happen well let me tell you
building software is really
hard it's like I don't want to hear that
I want results right I want people who
deliver results not explanations so as
CEO I think this is a good checklist for
do you have the right people now let's
take a look at the board view on this
question which is very different what
the board wants is for you to be a
little bit uncomfortable able with your
team the board wants you to be
challenged by your team right the board
wants you to hire people quote unquote
better than you or more experienced than
you why because by and large if you're
on the eastaff of a startup that's not
the place to learn how to do your job
right the board doesn't want people
learning how to be vpa of sales the
board doesn't want people learning um
how to be vpa marketing so and the way
the board thinks about this will be like
they may look at it somebody and say
well your VP sales is good for this year
but they have a sell by date of next
year um and this notion of having a sell
byby date it may not be polite but but
often board members have it and if they
have it I'd advise you to understand
what they are and to try and reframe the
issue that it shouldn't be that John or
Mary is with the company or Not by the
sell by date it's in that role because
the CEO I believe you want to keep these
people on the company but in fact they
may have a sell by date for a certain
role but I would add one Proviso if they
cannot develop skill why so try to
reframe this in the minds of your boards
ultimately the board wants to see you
hiring kind of a mix of veterans and
upand comers and ultimately ultimately
they come down to really one question
does Sarah our CEO bring in a players or
does Sarah hire people that she's
comfortable with and certainly the board
wants to see type
one three how can I better manage the
board you know I think the place to
start in thinking about this is there's
a universal desire amongst VC directors
to add value and one of the things VCS
do is pattern match and if you don't
Channel their energy you are likely to
be pattern matched to death um and I
propose a better solution um which is to
try and take control of the situation um
the other thing VCS will tend to do is
that the more financial I.E less
operational they are the more they care
about two things numbers and people by
the way the intersection of which is
called comp committee right so try to
drive those people towards your comp
committee I would make board meetings a
board meeting topic very few boards do
this just take an hour to say what kind
of board meeting do we want to have one
of my favorite questions ask each
director in their entire career who
managed the board best and what did they
do right one answer I heard this guy got
the slides out five days in advance
called every de the director
individually walk them through the deck
to me that's terrifying because because
I'm like why bother to have a board
meeting right if you're going to do that
but at the same time it was really good
to know that that was his view of
perfect board management right the other
thing just as a quick aside there if
you're getting the board slides out 24
hours or less before the board meeting
you're not looking good almost
regardless but but what are the
assumptions here are we assuming the
board has read the slides or not before
the meeting do we assume as I do that
the board is a chance for the board to
inspect the executive staff put them up
in front of the board and let them
answer questions about their business
some directors might want that I'd be
one of them some don't you need to
know but the real way to do this is to
kind of reverse the Paradigm and uh when
I went to Berkeley many many years ago
there was a local band called psychotic
pineapple and their their big hit song
was the devil has work for Idol hands
and whenever they hit the chorus
everybody would go like this and they
all put up their Idle Hands uh and
that's the way I think of the board
right the devil has worked for Idle
Hands if I I.E a good dog is a tired dog
right if I'm not keeping the board busy
helping me drive the company they are
going to come in with ideas and ways to
help that I may not find helpful so so
why not be proactive right at every
board meeting put at the pipeline who
knows somebody at every board meeting
look at the boards of the customers who
went to business school some guy at this
board um hey we're struggling with
metrics which one of you is a great
metrics driven
CFO right hey who wants to make a
committee with me to go solve this topic
or my favorite comp committee often a
nightmare can we reframe comp committee
from this Gauntlet that I need to run to
a collaborative exercise where me and
two board members are trying to make a
proposal that appropriately rewards the
executives and keeps them with the
company right get them working for
you number for to what extent should I
worry about competition and in some ways
this one's this one's weird because it's
like is this a trick question like
they're trying to kill me there's a
bunch of people across the street who've
raised $75 million or 150 million in
venture capital and they are trying to
kill me of course I should worry about
them right Sun Su if you know the enemy
and know yourself you need not fear the
results of 100 Battles right and then
one day I was at Salesforce I did a year
at sales course in the middle of all
that and uh I was mentioning zenes I was
like hey there's these guide call zenes
and they might be a problem for like our
customer service business um and I got
the kind of uhoh moment where like oh
and then Benny off said a proverb Dave
never lead from a position of fear I'm
like oh did I sound scared I wasn't
scared right I was just trying to point
out that we have this competitor right
but basically what we had here was a
proverb conflict right and you know it's
Silicon Valley I love managing M by 2500
year old proverb as much as the next guy
but but we've got two Proverbs in
Conflict here and what are we going to
do about
it and the answer is I think this whole
issue is semantically equivalent to an
issue I call drivenness where people say
what kind of company are we are we
Vision driven or are we customer driven
or are we competitor driven or sometimes
you'll even hear functional are we sales
driven or marketing driven or product
driven right the last three I just
exclude is itics period because what
you're saying is you want your function
to be more important than the other
functions so I throw those out but but
let's go to the first three should we be
Vision
driven you know what mark would have
said in that moment we need to blaze our
own path don't worry about the
competition you know that's Vision
driven should we be competitor driven
right developing detailed plans for how
we're going to kill competitors or
should we be customer driven uh and the
answer is avoid this fake either or
framing which is you need to speak like
you're Vision driven so when you're
talking to customers and analysts the
markets talk about the desired end State
talk about the vision don't talk about
competition when you're building your
company culture my opinion make it
customer driven we want everyone to be
genuinely concerned with and genuinely
curious about customer problems and
helping them solve them and when you're
building your strategy and setting goals
be competitor driven there's five guys
trying to kill you what's your plan to
kill them back right and who's going to
own pieces of that plan so so to me this
is not a binary answer it's we need to
be all three and if you just because I
think the default answer in Silicon
Valley is just focus on the vision and
that could be very dangerous because if
you have competition who's focused on
their vision and focused on killing you
um it could be a fairly painful
experience so you know number five are
we focused enough and the default answer
to this is probably not there's an
enormous number of factors that serve to
De defocus Silicon Valley companies
right I mean one of sadly one of the
worst answers for what are you going to
do next year is more of what we did this
year right because we're in a 2%
penetrated Market that we think is a 10
billion doll Tam and we don't need to
add new products or add new anything we
just need to go grab share in this huge
market and people hate to hear that
right so so I think you need to
understand that because I think your
first goal if you are in a heart Market
should be precisely that to do more of
what got us here next year but but what
about the
focus and when I think about Focus I
always go back to the movie Aladdin
where the the genie goes right
incredible cosmic power it bitty living
space right and this is my paraphrasing
of Jeffrey Moore with with all to
apology which is startup strategy should
be phenomenal Cosmic Vision tightly
focused execution right that's what you
need to have keep the big big Vision
don't lose sight of it but when you're
making next year's plan let's be focused
let's have achievable goals that we can
win remember Amazon right the first
product they sold was the book and their
big first move after books was CDs right
little products that easily shipped
let's debug the model and make it work
before we start trying to ship soccer
goals around right I remember I bought
my first soccer goal on Amazon and I'm
like wow I couldn't believe it cuz I was
like these are the guys you started in
books um and of course I mean look at
all the stuff they've done since um AWS
Mechanical Turk the the Fulfillment
model right but they did it
systematically did over for Facebook
right Facebook was Harvard students then
ivy league students then all University
students and then kind of all people
right let's be systematic that
vision is not the same thing as strategy
vision is is is a view on how the world
should be it's an end State and strategy
is systematic plan for getting
there
now since we have time I I thought I'd
throw in a bonus question um which is
are we winning and I think this question
is really important for your startup and
for the morale of the people in it
because everybody wants to feel like
they're at a company that's winning um
and look the board wants to feel like
they're winning like the number one
cause of CEO death is misalignment with
the
board so isn't it important to have
these kind of big questions discussed
with the board whether those about the
team and about people's sell by dates
don't let those just sit in people's
heads as assumption let's get them out
on the table well let's get another big
thing out on the table what is
winning and and I first heard this
question from a book called strategy is
Destiny by Robert berglan and Stanford
and uh his whole argument was pretty
simple if we say strategy is the plan to
win that immediately gets the question
what is winning and that's a very
healthy question to have between you and
your board and you may be surprised at
the answers you get particularly from
Founders because sometimes they'll
surprise you it's to make more money
than my roommate at MIT right or it's
death to the evil emperor of Microsoft
or it's like you may find some
underlying mission that you're like oh I
just thought we were trying to build a
$100 million doll company right and you
may find these motivations so it's a
good thing to get out there and get
surfaced so and uh there's so many
different answers that you find when
people speak honestly it's just a
fascinating conversation to have so look
in conclusion let's wrap this up
everybody worries about these five
questions they're kind of the five
questions that never go to bed in some
ways to define the startup CEO job these
are these are five questions that you
need to worry about a lot particularly
the first two like all of them but
certainly do I have enough money and do
I have the right team right that that's
got to take a lot of your time as a
startup CEO I encourage you to ponder
them too with your board your advisers
industry Watchers and more
and I'll end with a quote one of my
favorite quotes on management from Peter
drer which is you know the Temptation
for a startup CEO is to spend all their
time on management right and management
is about doing things right and there's
nothing wrong with that the trains need
to run on time at your company but
leadership is about doing the right
things and if you focus on these five
questions I think it'll help you find
the right balance between the two so
thanks a lot for attending today see you
next time take care